## 1.2 Data Types

The variables **x** and **y** can take any values such as integral numbers (10, 20), real numbers (0.23, 5.5), or just 0 and 1.
To solve the equation, we need to related them to the kind of values they can take, and **data type** is the name used in computer science programming for this purpose.
A **data type** in a programming language is a set of data with predefined values. Examples of data types are: integer, floating point, unit nubmer, character, string, etc.

Computer memory is all filled with zeros and ones.
If we had a problem and we want to code it, it's very difficult to provide the solution in terms of zeros and ones.
To help users, programming languages and compilers provide us with data types.
For example, **integer** take 2 bytes (actual value depends on compiler), **float** take 4 bytes, etc.
This says that in memory, we are combining 2 bytes (16 bits) and calling it an **integer**.
At the top level, there are 2 types of data types:
- System-defined data types (also called **Primitive** data types)
- User-defined data types

### System-defined data types (Primitive data types)

The primitive data types provied by many programming languages are: int, float, char, double, bool, etc.
For the same primitive data type, diffirent languages may use different sizes.
Depending on size of the data types, the total available values (domain) will also change.

For example, **int** may takes 2 bytes or 4 bytes.
If it takes 2 bytes (16 bits), then the total possible values are from -2^-15 to 2^15 - 1.
If it takes 4 bytes (32 bits), then the total possible values are from -2^-31 to 2^31 - 1.
The same is the case with other data types.

### User-defined data types

Good example of user defined data types are: **structures** in *C/C++* and **classes** in *Java*.
For example, in the snippet below, we are combining many system-defined data types and calling the user defined data type by the name **newType**:

``
    struct newType {
        int data1;
        float data2;
        ...
        char data;
    };
``